WORKSHEET-1
SQL
Q1 and Q2 have one or more correct answer. Choose all the correct option to answer your question

1. Which of the following is/are DDL commands in SQL?
 A) Create B) Update
 C) Delete D) ALTER
 

Answer A) Create  & D) ALTER

2. Which of the following is/are DML commands in SQL?
 A) Update B) Delete
 C) Select D) Drop


Answer  A) Update  & B) DELETE C) Select

Q3 to Q10 have only one correct answer. Choose the correct option to answer your question.


3. Full form of SQL is:
 A) Strut querying language B) Structured Query Language
 C) Simple Query Language D) None of them
 

Answer B) Structured Query Language

4. Full form of DDL is:
 A) Descriptive Designed Language B) Data Definition Language
 C) Data Descriptive Language D) None of the above.


Answer B) Structured Query Language

5. DML is:
 A) Data Manipulation Language B) Data Management Language
 C) Data Modeling Language D) None of these


Answer A) Data Manipulation Language

6. Which of the following statements can be used to create a table with column B int type and C float type?
 A) Table A (B int, C float) B) Create A (b int, C float)
 C) Create Table A (B int,C float) D) All of them


Answer C) Create Table A (B int,C float) 

7. Which of the following statements can be used to add a column D (float type) to the table A created above?

 A) Table A ( D float) B) Alter Table A ADD COLUMN D float
 C) Table A( B int, C float, D float) D) None of them


Answer B) Alter Table A ADD COLUMN D float

8. Which of the following statements can be used to drop the column added in the above question?
 A) Table A Drop D B) Alter Table A Drop Column D
 C) Delete D from A D) None of them


Answer B) Alter Table A Drop Column D

9. Which of the following statements can be used to change the data type (from float to int ) of the column D of
table A created in above questions?
 A) Table A (D float int) B) Alter Table A Alter Column D int
 C) Alter Table A D float int D) Alter table A Column D float to int


Answer B)  Alter Table A Alter Column D int

10. Suppose we want to make Column B of Table A as primary key of the table. By which of the following
statements we can do it?
 A) Alter Table A Add Constraint Primary Key B B) Alter table (B primary key)
 C) Alter Table A Add Primary key B D) None of them
 

Answer C) Alter Table A Add Primary key B

Q11 to Q15 are subjective answer type questions, Answer them briefly.

11. What is data-warehouse?
Answer: A Data Warehousing (DW) is process for collecting and managing data from varied sources to provide meaningful business insights. A Data warehouse is typically used to connect and analyze business data from heterogeneous sources. 
The data warehouse is the core of the BI system which is built for data analysis and reporting.
It is a blend of technologies and components which aids the strategic use of data. It is electronic storage of a large amount of information by a business which is designed for query and analysis instead of transaction processing. It is a process of transforming data into information and making it available to users in a timely manner to make a difference.


12. What is the difference between OLTP VS OLAP?

OLTP : It is an online transactional system and manages database modification. 
It has commands such as Insert, Update, Delete information from the database.
OLTP and its transactions are the original sources of data.
OLTP has short transactions also processing time of a transaction is comparatively less in OLTP.

OLAP : It is an online data retrieving and data analysis system. 
Extract data for analyzing that helps in decision making. 
Different OLTPs database becomes the source of data for OLAP.OLAP has long transactions. The processing time of a transaction is comparatively more in OLAP.

13. What are the various characteristics of data-warehouse?

Answer: 
Subject-oriented –
A data warehouse is always a subject oriented as it delivers information about a theme instead of organization’s current operations. These themes can be sales, distributions, marketing etc.

Integrated –
A data warehouse is built by integrating data from various sources of data such that a mainframe and a relational database. In addition, it must have reliable naming conventions, format and codes. Integration of data warehouse benefits in effective analysis of data.

Time-Variant –
In this data is maintained via different intervals of time such as weekly, monthly, or annually etc. It founds various time limit which are structured between the large datasets and are held in online transaction process (OLTP). 

Non-Volatile –
As the name defines the data resided in data warehouse is permanent. It also means that data is not erased or deleted when new data is inserted. It includes the mammoth quantity of data that is inserted into modification between the selected quantity on logical business.

14. What is Star-Schema??
Answer: Star schema is the fundamental schema among the data mart schema and it is simplest. 
This schema is widely used to develop or build a data warehouse and dimensional data marts. 
It includes one or more fact tables indexing any number of dimensional tables. 
The star schema is a necessary case of the snowflake schema. It is also efficient for handling basic queries.

15. What do you mean by SETL?
Answer: SET Language. A very high level language based on sets, designed by Jack Schwartz at the Courant Institute in the early 1970s. It was possibly the first use of list comprehension notation.

Data types include sets (unordered collections), tuples (ordered collections) and maps (collections of ordered pairs). Expressions may include quantifiers ('for each' and 'exists'). The first Ada translator was written in SETL.
