WORKSHEET-1
DEEP LEARNING
Q1 to Q8 are MCQs with only one correct answer. Choose the correct option.
1. Which of the following can approximate any function universally (i.e. universal approximators)?
A) Boosted Decision Trees B) Neural Networks
C) Kernel SVM D) All of the above
Answer: B) Neural Networks

2. In which of the following domains we cannot use neural networks?
A) Image Processing B) Speech Processing
C) Fraud Detection D) None of the above

Answer: D) None of the above

3. Rearrange the following steps of a gradient descent algorithm in correct order of their occurrence?
i. Initialize random weight and bias
ii. Repeat the process until you find the best weights of network
iii. Change weights and biases for each neuron to reduce the error
iv. Calculate error distances between the actual and the predicted value
v. Pass an input through the network and get values from output layer
Choose the correct option:
A) iv – i – iii – v – ii B) v – i – iii – iv –ii
C) i – v – iv – iii – ii D) i – v – iii –iv –ii


4. What is the full form of RNN?
A) Recurrent Neural Network B) Recursive Neural Network
C) Redundant Neural Network D) Resurrection Neural Network

Answer: A) Recurrent Neural Network


5. What is plasticity in neural networks?
A) input pattern keeps on changing B) input pattern has become static
C) output pattern keeps on changing D) output is static

Answer: C) output pattern keeps on changing

6. What is stability plasticity dilemma?
A) system can neither be stable nor plastic
B) static inputs & categorization can’t be handled
C) dynamic inputs & categorization can’t be handled
D) none of the above

Answer: C) dynamic inputs & categorization can’t be handled

7. Read the following statements:
Statement 1: It is possible to train a network well by initializing all the weights as 0
Statement 2: It is possible to train a network well by initializing biases as 0
Which of the statements given above is true, Choose the correct option?
A) Statement 1 is true while Statement 2 is false
B) Statement 2 is true while statement 1 is false
C) Both statements are true
D) Both statements are false


8. Which of the following architecture has feedback connections?
A) Recurrent Neural network B) Convolutional Neural Network
C) Restricted Boltzmann Machine D) simple Artificial Neural Network

Answer: D) simple Artificial Neural Network

Q9 and Q10 are MCQs with one or more correct answers. Choose all the correct options.

9. In training a neural network, you notice that the loss does not decrease in the few starting epochs. The reason
behind it could be
A) Learning Rate is low B) Regularisation parameter is high
C) Regularisation parameter is low D) Stuck at local minima

Answer:  A) Learning Rate is low B) Regularisation parameter is high & D) Stuck at local minima

10. Which of the following function(s) can be used to impart non – linearity in a neural network?
A) Stochastic Gradient Descent B) Rectified Linear Unit
C) Convolution Function D) Sigmoid Function

Answer: B) Rectified Linear Unit & D) Sigmoid Function

Q11 to Q15 are subjective answer type question. Answer them briefly.
11. What is Deep Learning?
Answer: Deep learning is an artificial intelligence (AI) function that imitates the workings of the human brain in processing data and creating patterns for use in decision making. Deep learning is a subset of machine learning in artificial intelligence that has networks capable of learning unsupervised from data that is unstructured or unlabeled. Also known as deep neural learning or deep neural network.


12. What is reinforcement learning?
Answer: Reinforcement learning is an area of Machine Learning. It is about taking suitable action to maximize reward in a particular situation. It is employed by various software and machines to find the best possible behavior or path it should take in a specific situation. Reinforcement learning differs from the supervised learning in a way that in supervised learning the training data has the answer key with it so the model is trained with the correct answer itself whereas in reinforcement learning, there is no answer but the reinforcement agent decides what to do to perform the given task. In the absence of a training dataset, it is bound to learn from its experience.


13. What Are the Differences Between Machine Learning and Deep Learning?
Answer:
ML: A subset of artificial intelligence involved with the creation of algorithms which can modify itself without human intervention to produce desired output- by feeding itself through structured data.

DL: A subset of machine learning where algorithms are created and function similar to those in machine learning, but there are numerous layers of these algorithms- each providing a different interpretation to the data it feeds on. Such a network of algorithms are called artificial neural networks, being named so as their functioning is an inspiration, or you may say; an attempt at imitating the function of the human neural networks present in the brain.

14. What is a perceptron?
A perceptron is a neural network unit (an artificial neuron) that does certain computations to detect features or business intelligence in the input data.

A Perceptron is an algorithm used for supervised learning of binary classifiers. Binary classifiers decide whether an input, usually represented by a series of vectors, belongs to a specific class.

In short, a perceptron is a single-layer neural network. They consist of four main parts including input values, weights and bias, net sum, and an activation function.

15. What’s the difference between AI and ML?
Anwer: 
AI: Artificial intelligence is a technology which enables a machine to simulate human behavior.
The goal of AI is to make a smart computer system like humans to solve complex problems.
In AI, we make intelligent systems to perform any task like a human.

ML: Machine learning is a subset of AI which allows a machine to automatically learn from past data without programming explicitly.
The goal of ML is to allow machines to learn from data so that they can give accurate output.
In ML, we teach machines with data to perform a particular task and give an accurate result.